# breastpathQ
 Approximately 14.5 million people have died due to cancer and it is estimated to surge up to 28 million by 2030. According to a study by the American Cancer Society (ACS), in the USA a total of 41,000 people died due to breast cancer, which makes it the second deadliest cancer among women after lung and bronchus cancer. There have been several efforts to use CNNs for breast cancer diagnosis using X-ray images and WSIs.
Neoadjuvant treatment (NAT) of breast cancer (BCa) can be considered as an option for patients with the locally advanced disease. Study of the tumor response to the NAT would provide useful information for patient management. Although the tumor size may not change, but the overall cellularity may reduce, making it an important factor when studying the response. Cellularity is defined as the percentage area of the overall tumor bed that is comprised of the tumor cells. In the current methods, tumor cellularity is manually estimated by pathologists on stained slides, the quality, and reliability of which might be impaired by the person assessing them.
In the diagnosis process, a biopsy followed by microscopic image analysis is a common procedure[1]. to visualize different components of the tissue, it is dyed with stains, in this case, hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). It allows pathologists to histologically inspect the structures and components of the breast tissue to determine the cancer cellularity.
In this report, I will describe a method for the determination of cancer cellularity from whole slide images (WSI) of breast cancer hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stained pathological slides using convolutional neural networks (CNN). This is a part of a “Grand Challenge” (BreastPathQ) held by the SPIE (the international society for optics and photonics), along with Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM), and the National Cancer Institute (NCI).

Read the full report:  <a href="https://github.com/hmoghimifam/breastpathQ/blob/main/Final-Project-BreastPathQ.pdf">link</a> \n
See the code: <a href="https://github.com/hmoghimifam/breastpathQ/blob/main/BreastPathQ.ipynbf">link</a>
